okay hello somehow we were lucky enough
to figure out how I PFS cluster works
yeah and I promise if you don't think
too hard about it it's pretty
straightforward
so ipfs cluster runs next to an IP FS
note it's not part of your actual daemon
and that's important and it's also
highly convenient so when you run
services on one or more IP FS nodes
these are ipfs cluster services they
they are able to communicate with each
other's nodes and create some shared
information this is one really helpful
part of running a cluster for example
you have a shared pin set and I shared
pin set has multiple C IDs and you can
replicate these C IDs across all or a
predefined
number of nodes in your cluster also you
get convenient monitoring and logging
which you see here in between all of
these nodes the yeah now that I'm
looking at how we drew this I forget
what the actual reasoning was but I
think the satellites the satellites are
proxy cluster endpoints that when you
hit them they do cluster features so for
example when you ask a cluster endpoint
to pin a file it will look at the
replication factor and replicate it
amongst the number of nodes that you
want to replicate that file on and it
will also help you know with the
monitoring and the logging and I'm
running out of time here but yeah this
is essentially how a cluster works
together thanks
you
[Applause]